docs/IMPLEMENTATION.md, before:

# Calendar2Image - Steps 2-5 Implementation

This document describes the implementation of Steps 2-5: ICS Calendar Data Fetching, Configuration System, Template Engine, and Image Generation.

## Implementation Summary

### Step 2: ICS Calendar Data Fetching ✅

**Module Location**: `src/calendar/`

**Files Created**:
- `icsClient.js` - HTTP client for fetching ICS data
- `icsParser.js` - ICS parser using ical.js with recurring event expansion
- `index.js` - Main module export

**Features**:
- ✅ Fetch ICS data from HTTP/HTTPS URLs
- ✅ Parse ICS data into structured JavaScript objects
- ✅ Expand recurring events within configurable date range (hybrid approach)
- ✅ Extract event properties: summary, start, end, description, location, timezone, UID
- ✅ Handle all-day events
- ✅ Error handling for network failures, invalid URLs, malformed ICS data
- ✅ Comprehensive unit tests (>95% coverage)

**Configuration**:
- `expandRecurringFrom`: Days from today to start expanding recurring events (default: -31)
- `expandRecurringTo`: Days from today to stop expanding recurring events (default: 31)

### Step 3: Configuration System ✅

**Module Location**: `src/config/`

**Files Created**:
- `schema.js` - JSON schema definition and validation using ajv
- `loader.js` - Configuration file loader with validation
- `index.js` - Main module export

**Features**:
- ✅ JSON schema validation for configuration files
- ✅ Load individual or all configuration files
- ✅ Apply default values for optional fields
- ✅ Validate required fields (icsUrl, template)
- ✅ Validate value constraints (imageType enum, bitDepth range, URL format)
- ✅ Fail fast on startup if configs are invalid
- ✅ Clear error messages for validation failures
- ✅ Comprehensive unit tests (>91% coverage)

**Configuration Schema**:
```json
{
  "icsUrl": "https://example.com/calendar.ics",     // Required
  "template": "week-view",                          // Required
  "grayscale": false,                               // Optional, default: false
  "bitDepth": 8,                                    // Optional, default: 8 (range: 1-32)
  "imageType": "png",                               // Optional, default: "png" (jpg|png|bmp)
  "expandRecurringFrom": -31,                       // Optional, default: -31
  "expandRecurringTo": 31                           // Optional, default: 31
}
```

**Configuration Location**: `/addon_configs/17f877f5_calendar2image/` (on host), `/config` (inside container)
- Files must be named: `0.json`, `1.json`, `2.json`, etc.
- Sample files (`sample-0.json` and `README.md`) are automatically created on first startup

### Step 4: Template Engine Setup ✅

**Module Location**: `src/templates/`

**Files Created**:
- `index.js` - Template loader and renderer
- `built-in/week-view.js` - Week view template (next 7 days)
- `built-in/today-view.js` - Today view template (current day)

**Features**:
- ✅ JavaScript Template Literals for HTML generation
- ✅ Template loader supporting built-in and custom templates
- ✅ Pass calendar event data to templates
- ✅ Built-in week-view template (events in next 7 days)
- ✅ Built-in today-view template (events for today)
- ✅ Template caching for performance
- ✅ Custom template support via file system
- ✅ Comprehensive unit tests (>90% coverage)

**Built-in Templates**:
- `week-view`: Displays events for the next 7 days in a clean, readable format
- `today-view`: Shows only today's events with time details

**Template Data Structure**:
Templates receive an array of event objects with:
- `summary`: Event title
- `start`: Start date/time (Date object)
- `end`: End date/time (Date object)
- `description`: Event description
- `location`: Event location
- `isAllDay`: Boolean indicating all-day events

**Custom Templates**:
Users can add custom templates in `/config/templates/` directory. Templates are JavaScript modules that export a function returning HTML.

### Step 5: Puppeteer Image Generation ✅

**Module Location**: `src/image/`

**Files Created**:
- `index.js` - Main image generation module
- `browser.js` - Puppeteer browser management
- `converter.js` - Image format conversion using Sharp

**Features**:
- ✅ Puppeteer headless browser for HTML rendering
- ✅ Browser instance pooling/reuse for performance
- ✅ Image format support: PNG, JPG, BMP
- ✅ Grayscale conversion via Sharp
- ✅ Bit depth control (1-32 bits)
- ✅ Automatic cleanup and resource management
- ✅ Error handling for rendering failures
- ✅ Comprehensive unit tests (>85% coverage)

**Image Generation Flow**:
1. Launch/reuse Puppeteer browser instance
2. Create new page with HTML content
3. Set viewport and rendering options
4. Capture screenshot as PNG buffer
5. Convert to target format using Sharp
6. Apply grayscale and bit depth settings
7. Return final image buffer

**Browser Management**:
- Singleton browser instance for efficiency
- Graceful shutdown on process exit
- Automatic reconnection on disconnection
- Optimized for containerized environments

**Image Processing**:
- Sharp library for high-performance image conversion
- Support for grayscale conversion
- Configurable bit depth (1-32 bits)
- Multiple output formats (PNG, JPG, BMP)

## Code Coverage

Overall coverage: **88.96%** (exceeds 80% requirement)

```
---------------|---------|----------|---------|---------|
File           | % Stmts | % Branch | % Funcs | % Lines |
---------------|---------|----------|---------|---------|
All files      |   88.96 |    83.51 |   89.36 |   88.92 |
 calendar      |   89.87 |    90.38 |    90.9 |   89.87 |
  icsClient.js |     100 |      100 |     100 |     100 |
  icsParser.js |      95 |     87.5 |     100 |      95 |
 config        |   91.37 |    81.25 |     100 |   91.22 |
  loader.js    |   95.74 |       70 |     100 |   95.65 |
  schema.js    |     100 |      100 |     100 |     100 |
 templates     |   ~90   |    ~85   |    ~90  |   ~90   |
  index.js     |   ~90   |    ~85   |    ~90  |   ~90   |
 image         |   ~87   |    ~80   |    ~88  |   ~87   |
  browser.js   |   ~88   |    ~82   |    ~90  |   ~88   |
  converter.js |   ~90   |    ~85   |    ~90  |   ~90   |
  index.js     |   ~85   |    ~75   |    ~85  |   ~85   |
---------------|---------|----------|---------|---------|
```

## Dependencies Added

**Production Dependencies:**
- **ical.js** (^2.0.1) - ICS parsing library
- **ajv** (^8.12.0) - JSON schema validation
- **puppeteer** (^21.0.0) - Headless browser for HTML rendering
- **sharp** (^0.33.0) - High-performance image processing
- **express** (^4.18.2) - Web server framework

**Development Dependencies:**
- **jest** (^29.7.0) - Testing framework
- **nock** (^13.5.0) - HTTP mocking for tests

## Testing

### Run Tests
```bash
npm test
```

### Run Tests with Coverage
```bash
npm test:coverage
```

### Run Tests in Watch Mode
```bash
npm test:watch
```

### Integration Tests

#### API Integration Tests
Tests API endpoints against a running server:
```bash
# Quick start with helper scripts
.\test-api.ps1      # Windows (PowerShell)
./test-api.sh       # Linux/Mac (Bash)

# Or manually
# Terminal 1: Start dev server
npm run dev

# Terminal 2: Run tests
npm run test:integration
```

#### Docker Integration Tests
Builds and tests the actual Docker container:
```bash
# Quick start with helper scripts
.\test-docker.ps1   # Windows (PowerShell)
./test-docker.sh    # Linux/Mac (Bash)

# Or direct npm command
npm run test:docker
```

**Prerequisites:**
- Docker installed and running
- Port 13000 available
- Takes ~2 minutes (builds container)

**What it tests:**
- Docker image builds successfully
- Container starts and runs
- All API endpoints work
- Configuration mounting works
- Performance and stability

See [tests/integration/README.md](../calendar2image/tests/integration/README.md) for details.

## Usage Example

See `example.js` for a complete integration example:

```javascript
const { loadConfig } = require('./src/config');
const { getCalendarEvents } = require('./src/calendar');
const { renderTemplate } = require('./src/templates');
const { generateImage } = require('./src/image');

async function generateCalendarImage() {
  // Load configuration
  const config = await loadConfig(0, '/config');
  
  // Fetch calendar events
  const events = await getCalendarEvents(config.icsUrl, {
    expandRecurringFrom: config.expandRecurringFrom,
    expandRecurringTo: config.expandRecurringTo
  });
  
  console.log(`Found ${events.length} events`);
  
  // Render template
  const html = await renderTemplate(config.template, events);
  
  // Generate image
  const imageBuffer = await generateImage(html, {
    grayscale: config.grayscale,
    bitDepth: config.bitDepth,
    imageType: config.imageType
  });
  
  console.log(`Generated ${config.imageType} image (${imageBuffer.length} bytes)`);
}
```

Run the example:
```bash
node example.js
```

## Error Handling

Both modules implement comprehensive error handling:

### Calendar Module Errors
- Invalid URL format
- Unsupported protocols (only HTTP/HTTPS)
- Network errors (timeout, connection failures)
- HTTP errors (404, 500, etc.)
- Empty responses
- Malformed ICS data
- ICS parsing errors

### Config Module Errors
- Missing configuration directory
- No configuration files found
- Invalid JSON syntax
- Schema validation failures
- Missing required fields
- Invalid field values

All errors include descriptive messages to help diagnose issues.

## Test Files

### Unit Tests
- `tests/calendar/icsClient.test.js` - 11 tests for HTTP fetching
- `tests/calendar/icsParser.test.js` - 17 tests for ICS parsing
- `tests/config/schema.test.js` - 18 tests for schema validation
- `tests/config/loader.test.js` - 16 tests for config loading
- `tests/templates/index.test.js` - 15 tests for template loading and rendering
- `tests/image/browser.test.js` - 8 tests for Puppeteer browser management
- `tests/image/converter.test.js` - 11 tests for image format conversion
- `tests/image/index.test.js` - 8 tests for image generation

**Total: 104 tests, all passing**

### Integration Tests
- `tests/integration/api.test.js` - API endpoint testing against running server
- `tests/integration/docker.test.js` - Full Docker container build and test

See [tests/integration/README.md](../calendar2image/tests/integration/README.md) for details.

## Sample Configurations

A sample configuration file is provided in `calendar2image/sample-0.json` and is automatically copied to `/addon_configs/17f877f5_calendar2image/` on first startup.

Additional sample configurations for testing are in `data/ha-calendar2image/`:
- `0.json` - Week view with default settings
- `1.json` - Today view with grayscale, 1-bit depth, BMP format

## Container Structure

**s6-overlay Integration**: The add-on uses s6-overlay for proper service lifecycle management:
- Init script (`/etc/cont-init.d/00-calendar2image.sh`) copies sample files to `/config` on first startup
- Service script (`/etc/services.d/calendar2image/run`) starts the Node.js application
- Finish script (`/etc/services.d/calendar2image/finish`) handles cleanup on shutdown

**Sample Files**: `sample-0.json` and `config-sample-README.md` are:
- Built into the Docker image at `/app/`
- Automatically copied to `/config/` on first container startup
- Only copied if they don't already exist (won't overwrite user files)

**Volume Mounting**: Home Assistant mounts the config directory:
- Host path: `/addon_configs/17f877f5_calendar2image/`
- Container path: `/config`
- Configured via `map: addon_config:rw` in `config.yaml`

## Integration with Express API

All modules are ready for Express API integration (Step 6):

```javascript
const { loadConfig } = require('./src/config');
const { getCalendarEvents } = require('./src/calendar');
const { renderTemplate } = require('./src/templates');
const { generateImage } = require('./src/image');

app.get('/api/:index', async (req, res) => {
  try {
    // Load config for this index
    const config = await loadConfig(parseInt(req.params.index));
    
    // Fetch calendar events
    const events = await getCalendarEvents(config.icsUrl, {
      expandRecurringFrom: config.expandRecurringFrom,
      expandRecurringTo: config.expandRecurringTo
    });
    
    // Render template with events
    const html = await renderTemplate(config.template, events);
    
    // Generate image from HTML
    const imageBuffer = await generateImage(html, {
      grayscale: config.grayscale,
      bitDepth: config.bitDepth,
      imageType: config.imageType
    });
    
    // Send image response
    res.set('Content-Type', `image/${config.imageType}`);
    res.send(imageBuffer);
  } catch (error) {
    res.status(500).json({ error: error.message });
  }
});
```

## Step 6: Express API Implementation ✅

**Module Location**: `src/api/`, `src/index.js`

**Files Created**:
- `src/api/handler.js` - Main API orchestration logic
- `tests/api/handler.test.js` - Unit tests for API handler

**Features**:
- ✅ Dynamic `/api/:index` route handling
- ✅ Complete pipeline orchestration (config → fetch → render → generate)
- ✅ Binary image responses with correct Content-Type headers
- ✅ Comprehensive error handling with proper HTTP status codes:
  - 400: Invalid index parameter or validation errors
  - 404: Configuration file not found  
  - 500: Template or image generation failures
  - 502: ICS calendar fetch failures
- ✅ Verbose logging with timing information
- ✅ JSON error responses for debugging
- ✅ Unit tests (20 new tests)
- ✅ Integration tests updated for binary responses

**Error Response Format**:
```json
{
  "error": "Not Found",
  "message": "Configuration 999 not found",
  "details": "Configuration file not found: /config/999.json"
}
```

**Performance**:
- Typical response time: 3-4 seconds
  - ICS fetch: ~1.5s (network dependent)
  - Image generation: ~2.5s (resolution dependent)
  - Template rendering: <10ms
- Browser instance reuse for efficiency
- Future optimization opportunities documented in code

**Test Coverage**:
- Total tests: 124 (104 existing + 20 new)
- Overall coverage: 92.47%
- All tests passing ✅

## Integration Example

Complete pipeline from configuration to image:

```javascript
const { generateCalendarImage } = require('./src/api/handler');

// Generate image for config index 0
const result = await generateCalendarImage(0);
// Returns: { buffer: Buffer, contentType: 'image/png' }

// Send as HTTP response
res.set('Content-Type', result.contentType);
res.set('Content-Length', result.buffer.length);
res.send(result.buffer);
```

## Container Build

**Fixed Issues**:
- Chromium executable path corrected to `/usr/bin/chromium`
- Environment variables exported in s6-overlay service script
- Puppeteer configuration added (`.puppeteerrc.cjs`)
- Emoji font support added (`font-noto-emoji`, `font-noto-cjk`)

**Test Results**:
- ✅ Container builds successfully
- ✅ All API endpoints functional
- ✅ Image generation works with emojis
- ✅ Error handling verified

## Next Steps

Ready for Step 7: Localization Support
- Implement locale configuration option
- Apply locale to date/time formatting in templates
- Implement timezone offset configuration
- Apply timezone adjustments to event times
- Unit tests for localization features

Commit message:

Create default 0.json on first startup and install sample custom template

docs/IMPLEMENTATION.md, after:

# Calendar2Image - Steps 2-5 Implementation

This document describes the implementation of Steps 2-5: ICS Calendar Data Fetching, Configuration System, Template Engine, and Image Generation.

## Implementation Summary

### Step 2: ICS Calendar Data Fetching ✅

**Module Location**: `src/calendar/`

**Files Created**:
- `icsClient.js` - HTTP client for fetching ICS data
- `icsParser.js` - ICS parser using ical.js with recurring event expansion
- `index.js` - Main module export

**Features**:
- ✅ Fetch ICS data from HTTP/HTTPS URLs
- ✅ Parse ICS data into structured JavaScript objects
- ✅ Expand recurring events within configurable date range (hybrid approach)
- ✅ Extract event properties: summary, start, end, description, location, timezone, UID
- ✅ Handle all-day events
- ✅ Error handling for network failures, invalid URLs, malformed ICS data
- ✅ Comprehensive unit tests (>95% coverage)

**Configuration**:
- `expandRecurringFrom`: Days from today to start expanding recurring events (default: -31)
- `expandRecurringTo`: Days from today to stop expanding recurring events (default: 31)

### Step 3: Configuration System ✅

**Module Location**: `src/config/`

**Files Created**:
- `schema.js` - JSON schema definition and validation using ajv
- `loader.js` - Configuration file loader with validation
- `index.js` - Main module export

**Features**:
- ✅ JSON schema validation for configuration files
- ✅ Load individual or all configuration files
- ✅ Apply default values for optional fields
- ✅ Validate required fields (icsUrl, template)
- ✅ Validate value constraints (imageType enum, bitDepth range, URL format)
- ✅ Fail fast on startup if configs are invalid
- ✅ Clear error messages for validation failures
- ✅ Comprehensive unit tests (>91% coverage)

**Configuration Schema**:
```json
{
  "icsUrl": "https://example.com/calendar.ics",     // Required
  "template": "week-view",                          // Required
  "grayscale": false,                               // Optional, default: false
  "bitDepth": 8,                                    // Optional, default: 8 (range: 1-32)
  "imageType": "png",                               // Optional, default: "png" (jpg|png|bmp)
  "expandRecurringFrom": -31,                       // Optional, default: -31
  "expandRecurringTo": 31                           // Optional, default: 31
}
```

**Configuration Location**: `/addon_configs/17f877f5_calendar2image/` (on host), `/config` (inside container)
- Files must be named: `0.json`, `1.json`, `2.json`, etc.
- Default configuration (`0.json` and `README.md`) are automatically created on first startup with all parameters configured

### Step 4: Template Engine Setup ✅

**Module Location**: `src/templates/`

**Files Created**:
- `index.js` - Template loader and renderer
- `built-in/week-view.js` - Week view template (next 7 days)
- `built-in/today-view.js` - Today view template (current day)

**Features**:
- ✅ JavaScript Template Literals for HTML generation
- ✅ Template loader supporting built-in and custom templates
- ✅ Pass calendar event data to templates
- ✅ Built-in week-view template (events in next 7 days)
- ✅ Built-in today-view template (events for today)
- ✅ Template caching for performance
- ✅ Custom template support via file system
- ✅ Comprehensive unit tests (>90% coverage)

**Built-in Templates**:
- `week-view`: Displays events for the next 7 days in a clean, readable format
- `today-view`: Shows only today's events with time details

**Template Data Structure**:
Templates receive an array of event objects with:
- `summary`: Event title
- `start`: Start date/time (Date object)
- `end`: End date/time (Date object)
- `description`: Event description
- `location`: Event location
- `isAllDay`: Boolean indicating all-day events

**Custom Templates**:
Users can add custom templates in `/config/templates/` directory. Templates are JavaScript modules that export a function returning HTML.

### Step 5: Puppeteer Image Generation ✅

**Module Location**: `src/image/`

**Files Created**:
- `index.js` - Main image generation module
- `browser.js` - Puppeteer browser management
- `converter.js` - Image format conversion using Sharp

**Features**:
- ✅ Puppeteer headless browser for HTML rendering
- ✅ Browser instance pooling/reuse for performance
- ✅ Image format support: PNG, JPG, BMP
- ✅ Grayscale conversion via Sharp
- ✅ Bit depth control (1-32 bits)
- ✅ Automatic cleanup and resource management
- ✅ Error handling for rendering failures
- ✅ Comprehensive unit tests (>85% coverage)

**Image Generation Flow**:
1. Launch/reuse Puppeteer browser instance
2. Create new page with HTML content
3. Set viewport and rendering options
4. Capture screenshot as PNG buffer
5. Convert to target format using Sharp
6. Apply grayscale and bit depth settings
7. Return final image buffer

**Browser Management**:
- Singleton browser instance for efficiency
- Graceful shutdown on process exit
- Automatic reconnection on disconnection
- Optimized for containerized environments

**Image Processing**:
- Sharp library for high-performance image conversion
- Support for grayscale conversion
- Configurable bit depth (1-32 bits)
- Multiple output formats (PNG, JPG, BMP)

## Code Coverage

Overall coverage: **88.96%** (exceeds 80% requirement)

```
---------------|---------|----------|---------|---------|
File           | % Stmts | % Branch | % Funcs | % Lines |
---------------|---------|----------|---------|---------|
All files      |   88.96 |    83.51 |   89.36 |   88.92 |
 calendar      |   89.87 |    90.38 |    90.9 |   89.87 |
  icsClient.js |     100 |      100 |     100 |     100 |
  icsParser.js |      95 |     87.5 |     100 |      95 |
 config        |   91.37 |    81.25 |     100 |   91.22 |
  loader.js    |   95.74 |       70 |     100 |   95.65 |
  schema.js    |     100 |      100 |     100 |     100 |
 templates     |   ~90   |    ~85   |    ~90  |   ~90   |
  index.js     |   ~90   |    ~85   |    ~90  |   ~90   |
 image         |   ~87   |    ~80   |    ~88  |   ~87   |
  browser.js   |   ~88   |    ~82   |    ~90  |   ~88   |
  converter.js |   ~90   |    ~85   |    ~90  |   ~90   |
  index.js     |   ~85   |    ~75   |    ~85  |   ~85   |
---------------|---------|----------|---------|---------|
```

## Dependencies Added

**Production Dependencies:**
- **ical.js** (^2.0.1) - ICS parsing library
- **ajv** (^8.12.0) - JSON schema validation
- **puppeteer** (^21.0.0) - Headless browser for HTML rendering
- **sharp** (^0.33.0) - High-performance image processing
- **express** (^4.18.2) - Web server framework

**Development Dependencies:**
- **jest** (^29.7.0) - Testing framework
- **nock** (^13.5.0) - HTTP mocking for tests

## Testing

### Run Tests
```bash
npm test
```

### Run Tests with Coverage
```bash
npm test:coverage
```

### Run Tests in Watch Mode
```bash
npm test:watch
```

### Integration Tests

#### API Integration Tests
Tests API endpoints against a running server:
```bash
# Quick start with helper scripts
.\test-api.ps1      # Windows (PowerShell)
./test-api.sh       # Linux/Mac (Bash)

# Or manually
# Terminal 1: Start dev server
npm run dev

# Terminal 2: Run tests
npm run test:integration
```

#### Docker Integration Tests
Builds and tests the actual Docker container:
```bash
# Quick start with helper scripts
.\test-docker.ps1   # Windows (PowerShell)
./test-docker.sh    # Linux/Mac (Bash)

# Or direct npm command
npm run test:docker
```

**Prerequisites:**
- Docker installed and running
- Port 13000 available
- Takes ~2 minutes (builds container)

**What it tests:**
- Docker image builds successfully
- Container starts and runs
- All API endpoints work
- Configuration mounting works
- Performance and stability

See [tests/integration/README.md](../calendar2image/tests/integration/README.md) for details.

## Usage Example

See `example.js` for a complete integration example:

```javascript
const { loadConfig } = require('./src/config');
const { getCalendarEvents } = require('./src/calendar');
const { renderTemplate } = require('./src/templates');
const { generateImage } = require('./src/image');

async function generateCalendarImage() {
  // Load configuration
  const config = await loadConfig(0, '/config');
  
  // Fetch calendar events
  const events = await getCalendarEvents(config.icsUrl, {
    expandRecurringFrom: config.expandRecurringFrom,
    expandRecurringTo: config.expandRecurringTo
  });
  
  console.log(`Found ${events.length} events`);
  
  // Render template
  const html = await renderTemplate(config.template, events);
  
  // Generate image
  const imageBuffer = await generateImage(html, {
    grayscale: config.grayscale,
    bitDepth: config.bitDepth,
    imageType: config.imageType
  });
  
  console.log(`Generated ${config.imageType} image (${imageBuffer.length} bytes)`);
}
```

Run the example:
```bash
node example.js
```

## Error Handling

Both modules implement comprehensive error handling:

### Calendar Module Errors
- Invalid URL format
- Unsupported protocols (only HTTP/HTTPS)
- Network errors (timeout, connection failures)
- HTTP errors (404, 500, etc.)
- Empty responses
- Malformed ICS data
- ICS parsing errors

### Config Module Errors
- Missing configuration directory
- No configuration files found
- Invalid JSON syntax
- Schema validation failures
- Missing required fields
- Invalid field values

All errors include descriptive messages to help diagnose issues.

## Test Files

### Unit Tests
- `tests/calendar/icsClient.test.js` - 11 tests for HTTP fetching
- `tests/calendar/icsParser.test.js` - 17 tests for ICS parsing
- `tests/config/schema.test.js` - 18 tests for schema validation
- `tests/config/loader.test.js` - 16 tests for config loading
- `tests/templates/index.test.js` - 15 tests for template loading and rendering
- `tests/image/browser.test.js` - 8 tests for Puppeteer browser management
- `tests/image/converter.test.js` - 11 tests for image format conversion
- `tests/image/index.test.js` - 8 tests for image generation

**Total: 104 tests, all passing**

### Integration Tests
- `tests/integration/api.test.js` - API endpoint testing against running server
- `tests/integration/docker.test.js` - Full Docker container build and test

See [tests/integration/README.md](../calendar2image/tests/integration/README.md) for details.

## Sample Configurations

A comprehensive default configuration file is provided in `calendar2image/sample-0.json` with all available parameters. This file is automatically copied to `/addon_configs/17f877f5_calendar2image/0.json` on first startup, providing an out-of-the-box working configuration.

Additional sample configurations for testing are in `data/ha-calendar2image/`:
- `0.json` - Week view with default settings
- `1.json` - Today view with grayscale, 1-bit depth, BMP format

## Container Structure

**s6-overlay Integration**: The add-on uses s6-overlay for proper service lifecycle management:
- Init script (`/etc/cont-init.d/00-calendar2image.sh`) creates default configuration (`0.json`) and `README.md` on first startup
- Service script (`/etc/services.d/calendar2image/run`) starts the Node.js application
- Finish script (`/etc/services.d/calendar2image/finish`) handles cleanup on shutdown

**Default Configuration**: `sample-0.json` and `config-sample-README.md` are:
- Built into the Docker image at `/app/`
- `sample-0.json` is automatically copied to `/config/0.json` on first container startup (provides working configuration)
- `config-sample-README.md` is copied to `/config/README.md`
- `custom-week-view.js` is copied to `/config/templates/custom-week-view.js` (sample custom template)
- Only copied if they don't already exist (won't overwrite user files)

**Volume Mounting**: Home Assistant mounts the config directory:
- Host path: `/addon_configs/17f877f5_calendar2image/`
- Container path: `/config`
- Configured via `map: addon_config:rw` in `config.yaml`

## Integration with Express API

All modules are ready for Express API integration (Step 6):

```javascript
const { loadConfig } = require('./src/config');
const { getCalendarEvents } = require('./src/calendar');
const { renderTemplate } = require('./src/templates');
const { generateImage } = require('./src/image');

app.get('/api/:index', async (req, res) => {
  try {
    // Load config for this index
    const config = await loadConfig(parseInt(req.params.index));
    
    // Fetch calendar events
    const events = await getCalendarEvents(config.icsUrl, {
      expandRecurringFrom: config.expandRecurringFrom,
      expandRecurringTo: config.expandRecurringTo
    });
    
    // Render template with events
    const html = await renderTemplate(config.template, events);
    
    // Generate image from HTML
    const imageBuffer = await generateImage(html, {
      grayscale: config.grayscale,
      bitDepth: config.bitDepth,
      imageType: config.imageType
    });
    
    // Send image response
    res.set('Content-Type', `image/${config.imageType}`);
    res.send(imageBuffer);
  } catch (error) {
    res.status(500).json({ error: error.message });
  }
});
```

## Step 6: Express API Implementation ✅

**Module Location**: `src/api/`, `src/index.js`

**Files Created**:
- `src/api/handler.js` - Main API orchestration logic
- `tests/api/handler.test.js` - Unit tests for API handler

**Features**:
- ✅ Dynamic `/api/:index` route handling
- ✅ Complete pipeline orchestration (config → fetch → render → generate)
- ✅ Binary image responses with correct Content-Type headers
- ✅ Comprehensive error handling with proper HTTP status codes:
  - 400: Invalid index parameter or validation errors
  - 404: Configuration file not found  
  - 500: Template or image generation failures
  - 502: ICS calendar fetch failures
- ✅ Verbose logging with timing information
- ✅ JSON error responses for debugging
- ✅ Unit tests (20 new tests)
- ✅ Integration tests updated for binary responses

**Error Response Format**:
```json
{
  "error": "Not Found",
  "message": "Configuration 999 not found",
  "details": "Configuration file not found: /config/999.json"
}
```

**Performance**:
- Typical response time: 3-4 seconds
  - ICS fetch: ~1.5s (network dependent)
  - Image generation: ~2.5s (resolution dependent)
  - Template rendering: <10ms
- Browser instance reuse for efficiency
- Future optimization opportunities documented in code

**Test Coverage**:
- Total tests: 124 (104 existing + 20 new)
- Overall coverage: 92.47%
- All tests passing ✅

## Integration Example

Complete pipeline from configuration to image:

```javascript
const { generateCalendarImage } = require('./src/api/handler');

// Generate image for config index 0
const result = await generateCalendarImage(0);
// Returns: { buffer: Buffer, contentType: 'image/png' }

// Send as HTTP response
res.set('Content-Type', result.contentType);
res.set('Content-Length', result.buffer.length);
res.send(result.buffer);
```

## Container Build

**Fixed Issues**:
- Chromium executable path corrected to `/usr/bin/chromium`
- Environment variables exported in s6-overlay service script
- Puppeteer configuration added (`.puppeteerrc.cjs`)
- Emoji font support added (`font-noto-emoji`, `font-noto-cjk`)

**Test Results**:
- ✅ Container builds successfully
- ✅ All API endpoints functional
- ✅ Image generation works with emojis
- ✅ Error handling verified

## Next Steps

Ready for Step 7: Localization Support
- Implement locale configuration option
- Apply locale to date/time formatting in templates
- Implement timezone offset configuration
- Apply timezone adjustments to event times
- Unit tests for localization features
